Hello, and welcome back
to the course on deep learning.
Super excited to have you on board.
And today I'm going to show you
how to install Python on to your machine.
Doesn't matter whether you have a Mac
or a Windows PC, the process is very similar.
So, let's get straight to it.
Alright so, first thing as always
we're going to need a browser.
I'm gonna bring up a browser
and what we're going to do is
just google for Anaconda Python,
that way you won't have to type in the website.
Or you can just type in the website if you like.
It's continuum, c-o-n-t-i-n-u-u-m dot io slash downloads.
And what we're downloading here is Anaconda.
The Anaconda distribution for Python.
So, let's just go ahead and click the one we want.
So, select whichever machine you're on.
I'm on Windows, so I'm gonna click Windows here.
I'm gonna get the 64 bit installer.
And make sure you get Python 3.5 version.
Then they're offering a cheat sheet.
You can get the cheat sheet if you like.
If you want to learn more about Anaconda.
But we don't really need it.
So, I'm gonna click no thanks.
And it's downloading, it's quite large,
it's 350 megabytes.
So, make sure you get Python 3.5 and not Python 2.7.
This is a updated version of Python.
And while it's downloading, I'm going to explain
a little bit what Anaconda is.
So, Python like with R, Python is a programming language
which you install on to your machine.
And then on top of that, you can install
different integrated development environments,
so IDE's and you can install other,
you can add packages on to it.
You can do lot's of different modifications.
So, just Python by itself is not going to be very useful
to you, unless you install an IDE
that you're going to work through with Python.
And therefor, it's very convenient
that Anaconda have or from Continuum Analytics,
they have developed this prepackaged solution
called Anaconda which installs not only Python
but installs a couple of IDE's on to your computer.
Installs the most common packages
that you might be using like NumPy, Pandas
and some others.
And therefore it's just
a very conveniently packaged solution
that you can download and install.
And that's exactly what we're doing.
So, I already have it on my computer.
So, I'm gonna actually cancel this installation download.
I actually have that download package.
And once it's downloaded it, you just need to run it.
And whether it's Mac or Windows, it's gonna look similar.
And then just go through the installation process.
It's gonna ask you where you want to install it,
agree to a license, who you want to install it for,
where you want to install it to.
So, I usually recommend installing into the default folder.
And then it'll ask you just a couple of other questions.
So, just go through this installation process.
It's gonna take a little bit of time
because it is a large package.
And then when it's done, what you need to do
is you need to actually launch it.
So, I'm gonna show you now,
how to find it on your computer and launch it.
So, give me a second.
There's my taskbar.
So, if you go to taskbar at the bottom.
And don't worry about Anaconda Cloud.
Just in your search or here, just start typing
in anaconda.
And here you can see that you've got Anaconda Navigator.
That's the one we need.
You need to find Anaconda Navigator and launch that.
So, that is your aim.
And this is gonna take a few seconds to load as well.
So, let's give it some time.
Alright, so here it is.
This is what Anaconda Navigator looks like.
I'm gonna expand it to full screen.
And here you can see that you've already
got quite a few things.
It's a very user friendly environment as well.
And you can also find it on a Mac.
So, not only on a Windows.
On a Mac you just go to, so you just need
to press command space on a Mac.
And that'll bring up the search.
And there, just type in anaconda navigator
and you will be greeted with a window just like this one.
And here you can see that a couple of things
are already available.
You've got the Jupyter notebooks for example.
Qt console and Spyder.
And what we're interested in is actually Spyder.
So, Spyder's our IDE of choice.
So, you can see here powerful Python IDE
with advanced editing, interactive testing, debugging
and introspection features.
So, we'll be using all those features
but it is going to be our IDE of choice for this course.
So, lets go ahead and launch Spyder
and have a look inside.
So, give it a second.
And there is Spyder.
So, this is a separate window,
you no longer need Anaconda Navigator,
you can just close it.
Don't show again.
Yes.
There is Spyder, and this is our IDE.
And if you're launching this on Mac,
you might not see all of these windows.
On a Mac, it might look something,
give me a second, let me close all of this.
Looks something like this, like empty.
So, to bring up your panes, you go to View, Panes
and then you need Editor for sure.
Then you don't need Console, so don't bring up Console.
Because you need the IPython console,
it's more advanced and it's what
we're going to be using in this course.
Then you will need a variable explorer
and then you will also need object inspector.
So, and if you need any other ones.
So, if you find that throughout the course
we're using something else like maybe File Explorer.
Something through out of these,
you can always just add them on from here.
So, you'll be able to quickly
add them like that, no problems.
So, just if you find that you don't have a tab
that we're using, just go to View, Panes and add it in.
Alright, so that's how you get the panes.
And I'm just gonna remove that line for now.
And now, what we want to do is also
I want to show you how to customize the view.
Now you can see right away that the font here is very small.
And you might want to increase it.
We'll definitely increase it for this course.
So, you can see it better.
But if you want to increase it on your own machine,
just go to Preferences and then on the left find Editor.
So, this is your editor and here you can increase the font,
you can even change the font style,
and just maybe increase it to 14 or something.
So, you can see it's increasing
in size very nicely like that.
And then, you can also make it darker.
So, if you want for instance, if it's better for your eyes,
or you're working at night, this might be too bright.
Very easy, just over here select
the color scheme that you want.
For instance, let's say Spyder Dark.
And there you go, it's now dark.
So, it's totally up to you.
I'm just gonna bring it back to the normal Spyder.
These are a couple of other options.
You can even create your own options.
You can just go to syntax coloring
and then you can adjust them here
to your preferences.
Okay, so, that's how we set up our console
or our IDE, and also actually you can change
in the console, or IPython console
you can change the font size here as well.
So, for instance, you can just go
and set it to 14 or something else
if you want to increase the font size as well here.
So, you can find those other windows as well.
And now, just to finish off we're
gonna type in our first program.
We're going to say print and then in brackets
we're gonna say, in quotation marks,
Hello World exclamation mark.
And now, we're gonna highlight everything
and press Control Enter on our keyboard
or Command Return on a Mac.
If you press that, then you
can see that that line has been copied into the console
and has been run.
And we've printed our first phrase Hello World.
Congratulations you've just installed
Python on to your machine.
And you're ready to proceed with the course.